ron and hermione were a very good audience they gasped in all the right places and when harry told them what was under quirrell’s turban hermione screamed out loud. “so the stone’s gone?” said ron finally. “flamel’s just going to die?” “that’s what i said but dumbledore thinks that — what was it — ‘to the well-organized mind death is but the next great adventure.’ ” “i always said he was off his rocker,” said ron looking quite impressed at how crazy his hero was. “so what happened to you two?” said harry. “well i got back all right,” said hermione. “i brought ron round — that took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall — he already knew — he just said ‘harry’s gone after him hasn’t he?’ and hurtled off to the third floor.” “d’you think he meant you to do it?” said ron. “sending you your fathers cloak and everything?” “well,” hermione exploded “if he did — i mean to say — that’s terrible — you could have been killed.” “no it isn’t,” said harry thoughtfully. “he’s a funny man dumbledore. i think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. i think he knows more or less everything that goes on here you know. i reckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try and instead of stopping us he just taught us enough to help. i don’t think it was an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. it’s almost like he thought i had the right to face voldemort if i could. ...” “yeah dumbledore’s off his rocker all right,” said ron proudly. “listen you’ve got to be up for the end of-year feast tomorrow. the points are all in and slytherin won of course — you missed the last quidditch match we were steamrollered by ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good.” at that moment madam pomfrey bustled over. “you’ve had nearly fifteen minutes now out,” she said firmly. •k k k after a good night’s sleep harry felt nearly back to normal. “i want to go to the feast,” he told madam pomfrey as she straightened his many candy boxes. “i can can’t i?” “professor dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go,” she said sniffily as though in her opinion professor dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts could be. “and you have another visitor.” “oh good,” said harry. “who is it?” hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. as usual when he was indoors hagrid looked too big to be allowed. he sat down next to harry took one look at him and burst into tears. “it’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed his face in his hands. “i told the evil git how ter get past fluffy! i told him! it was the only thing he didn’t know an’ i told him! yeh could’ve died! all fer a dragon egg! i’ll never drink again! i should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a muggle!” “hagrid!” said harry shocked to see hagrid shaking with grief and remorse great tears leaking down into his beard. “hagrid he’d have found out somehow this is voldemort we’re talking about he’d have found out even if you hadn’t told him.” “yeh could’ve died!” sobbed hagrid. “an’ don’ say the name!” “voldemort!” harry bellowed and hagrid was so shocked he stopped crying. “i’ve met him and i’m calling him by his name. please cheer up hagrid we saved the stone it’s gone he can’t use it. have a chocolate frog i’ve got loads. ...” hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said “that reminds me. i’ve got yeh a present.” “it’s not a stoat sandwich is it?” said harry anxiously and at last hagrid gave a weak chuckle. “nah. dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ’course he shoulda sacked me instead — anyway got y eh this ...” it seemed to be a handsome leather-covered book. harry opened it curiously. it was full of wizard photographs. smiling and waving at him from every page were his mother and father. “sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends askin’ fer photos ... knew yeh didn’ have any ... d’yeh like it?” harry couldn’t speak but hagrid understood. harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. he had been held up by madam pomfrey’s fussing about insisting on giving him one last checkup so the great hall was already full. it was decked out in the slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate slytherin ’s winning the house cup for the seventh year in a row. a huge banner showing the slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the high table. when harry walked in there was a sudden hush and then everybody started talking loudly at once. he slipped into a seat between ron and hermione at the gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were standing up to look at him. fortunately dumbledore arrived moments later. the babble died away. “another year gone!” dumbledore said cheerfully. “and i must trouble you with an old man’s wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our delicious feast. what a year it has been! hopefully your heads are all a little fuller than they were . . . you have the whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty before next year starts. ... “now as i understand it the house cup here needs awarding and the points stand thus in fourth place gryffindor with three hundred and twelve points in third hufflepuff with three hundred and fifty-two ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and slytherin four hundred and seventy two.” a storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the slytherin table. harry could see draco malfoy banging his goblet on the table. it was a sickening sight. “yes yes well done slytherin,” said dumbledore. “however recent events must be taken into account.” the room went very still. the slytherins’ smiles faded a little. “ahem,” said dumbledore. “i have a few last-minute points to dish out. let me see. yes ... “first — to mr. ronald weasley ...” ron went purple in the face he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. ... for the best-played game of chess hogwarts has seen in many years i award gryffindor house fifty points.” gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling the stars overhead seemed to quiver. percy could be heard telling the other prefects “my brother you know! my youngest brother! got past mcgonagall’s giant chess set!” at last there was silence again. “second — to miss hermione granger . . . for the use of cool logic in the face of fire i award gryffindor house fifty points.” hermione buried her face in her arms harry strongly suspected she had burst into tears. gryffindors up and down the table were beside themselves — they were a hundred points up. “third — to mr. harry potter ...” said dumbledore. the room went deadly quiet. ... for pure nerve and outstanding courage i award gryffindor house sixty points.” the din was deafening. those who could add up while yelling themselves hoarse knew that gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly the same as slytherin. they had tied for the house cup — if only dumbledore had given harry just one more point. dumbledore raised his hand. the room gradually fell silent. “there are all kinds of courage,” said dumbledore smiling. “it takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies but just as much to stand up to our friends. i therefore award ten points to mr. neville longbottom.” someone standing outside the great hall might well have thought some sort of explosion had taken place so loud was the noise that erupted from the gryffindor table. harry ron and hermione stood up to yell and cheer as neville white with shock disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. he had never won so much as a point for gryffindor before. harry still cheering nudged ron in the ribs and pointed at malfoy who couldn’t have looked more stunned and horrified if he’d just had the body-bind curse put on him. “which means,” dumbledore called over the storm of applause for even ravenclaw and hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of slytherin “we need a little change of decoration.” he clapped his hands. in an instant the green hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold the huge slytherin serpent vanished and a towering gryffindor lion took its place. snape was shaking professor mcgonagall’s hand with a horrible forced smile. he caught harry’s eye and harry knew at once that snape ’s feelings toward him hadn’t changed one jot. this didn’t worry harry. it seemed as though life would be back to normal next year or as normal as it ever was at hogwarts. it was the best evening of harry’s life better than winning at quidditch or christmas or knocking out mountain trolls ... he would never ever forget tonight. harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come but come they did. to their great surprise both he and ron passed with good marks hermione of course had the best grades of the first years. even neville scraped through his good herbology mark making up for his abysmal potions one. they had hoped that goyle who was almost as stupid as he was mean might be thrown out but he had passed too. it was a shame but as ron said you couldn’t have everything in life. and suddenly their wardrobes were empty their trunks were packed neville’s toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets notes were handed out to all students warning them not to use magic over the holidays “i always hope they’ll forget to give us these,” said fred weasley sadly hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across the lake they were boarding the hogwarts express talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier eating bertie bott’s every flavor beans as they sped past muggle towns pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at king’s cross station. it took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. a wizened old guard was up by the ticket barrier letting them go through the gate in twos and threes so they didn’t attract attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at once and alarming the muggles. “you must come and stay this summer,” said ron “both of you — i’ll send you an owl.” “thanks,” said harry “i’ll need something to look forward to.” people jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the muggle world. some of them called “bye harry!” “see you potter!” “still famous,” said ron grinning at him. “not where i’m going i promise you,” said harry. he ron and hermione passed through the gateway together. “there he is mom there he is look!” it was ginny weasley ron’s younger sister but she wasn’t pointing at ron. “harry potter!” she squealed. “look mom! i can see “be quiet ginny and it’s rude to point.” mrs. weasley smiled down at them. “busy year?” she said. “very,” said harry. “thanks for the fudge and the sweater mrs. weasley.” “oh it was nothing dear.” “ready are you?” it was uncle vernon still purple-faced still mustached still looking furious at the nerve of harry carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of ordinary people. behind him stood aunt petunia and dudley looking terrified at the very sight of harry. “you must be harry’s family!” said mrs. weasley. “in a manner of speaking,” said uncle vernon. “hurry up boy we haven’t got all day.” he walked away. harry hung back for a last word with ron and hermione. “see you over the summer then.” “hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said hermione looking uncertainly after uncle vernon shocked that anyone could be so unpleasant. “oh i will,” said harry and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over his face. “ they don’t know we’re not allowed to use magic at home. i’m going to have a lot of fun with dudley this summer...”